KEP-3488 ValidatingAdmissionPolicy post-1.27 update (#40054)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/validating-admission-policy.md

      matchExpressions:
      - key: environment
        operator: Exists

>   validationActions: ["Deny"]

Author: NOTE: Will drop this change after https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/40098 is merged.

The currently supported reasons are: `Unauthorized`, `Forbidden`, `Invalid`, `RequestEntityTooLarge`.
If not set, `StatusReasonInvalid` is used in the response to the client.

> ### Message Expression

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Message expression
```

To match the "sentience case"  convention for headers in these docs (which I just learned about recently).

To return a more friendly message when the policy rejects a request, we can use a CEL expression

> to composite a message with `spec.validations[i].messageExpression`. Similar to the validation expression,

Reviewer: This is useful even before the policy rejects requests because it helps a developer to find and fix mistakes even before any bindings are registered.

Author: Is the rejection message returned somewhere other than `ValidatingAdmissionPolicy 'deploy-replica-policy.example.com' with binding 'demo-binding-test.example.com' denied request`? It may be worthwhile to mention it down below too.

Author: no worries.

  matchConstraints:
    resourceRules:
    - apiGroups:   ["apps"]
      apiVersions: ["v1"]
      operations:  ["CREATE", "UPDATE"]
      resources:   ["deployments"]
  validations:
  - expression: "object.spec.replicas <= params.maxReplicas"
    messageExpression: "'object.spec.replicas must be no greater than ' + string(params.maxReplicas)"
    reason: Invalid
```

After creating a params object that limits the replicas to 3 and setting up the binding, when we try to create a deployment with 5 replicas,
we will receive the following message.
```
$ kubectl create deploy --image=nginx nginx --replicas=5
error: failed to create deployment: deployments.apps "nginx" is forbidden: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy 'deploy-replica-policy.example.com' with binding 'demo-binding-test.example.com' denied request: object.spec.replicas must be no greater than 3
```
This is more informative than a static message of "too many replicas".

The message expression takes precedence of the static message defined in `spec.validations[i].message` if both are defined.
However, in the situation where the message expression fails to evaluate, the result will fall back to use the static message instead.

> ### Type Checking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Type checking
```

> A common error when authoring a policy is type confusion. When a policy definition is being created or updated,

Reviewer: To establish context, it might also be worth noting here that the CEL expressions are parsed when a ValidatingAdmissionPolicy is created/updated and any gramatical errors are reported at that time, but the fields and types of fields on object, oldObject and params are not checked for correctness..

Author: (added)

For example the following policy definition 
```yaml
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: "replica-policy.example.com"
spec:
  matchConstraints:
    resourceRules:
    - apiGroups:   ["apps"]
      apiVersions: ["v1"]
      operations:  ["CREATE", "UPDATE"]
      resources:   ["deployments","replicasets"]
  validations:
  - expression: "object.replicas > 1" # should be "object.spec.replicas > 1"
    message: "must be replicated"
    reason: Invalid
```
will have multiple types in the warning message.
```yaml
status:
  typeChecking:
    expressionWarnings:
    - fieldRef: spec.validations[0].expression
      warning: |-
        apps/v1, Kind=Deployment: ERROR: <input>:1:7: undefined field 'replicas'
         | object.replicas > 1
         | ......^
        apps/v1, Kind=ReplicaSet: ERROR: <input>:1:7: undefined field 'replicas'
         | object.replicas > 1
         | ......^
```

Type Checking has the following limitation:

- No wildcard matching. If `spec.matchConstraints.resourceRules` contains `"*"` in any of `apiGroups`, `apiVersions` or `resources`,

>   the `"*"` entry will be ignored;

Author: (added)

- The number of matched types is limited to 10. This is to prevent a policy that manually specifying too many types

>   to consume excessive computing resources;

Reviewer: State what happens when the limit is exceeded?

Author: (added)

> - Type Checking does not affect the policy behavior in any way. Even if the type checking detects errors, the policy will continue

Author: (added)

message expression must evaluate to a string.

For example, to better inform the user of the reason of denial when the policy refers to a param, we can have the following validation:

{{< codenew file="access/deployment-replicas-policy.yaml" >}}

After creating a params object that limits the replicas to 3 and setting up the binding, when we try to create a deployment with 5 replicas,
we will receive the following message.
```
$ kubectl create deploy --image=nginx nginx --replicas=5
error: failed to create deployment: deployments.apps "nginx" is forbidden: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy 'deploy-replica-policy.example.com' with binding 'demo-binding-test.example.com' denied request: object.spec.replicas must be no greater than 3
```
This is more informative than a static message of "too many replicas".

The message expression takes precedence over the static message defined in `spec.validations[i].message` if both are defined.
However, if the message expression fails to evaluate, the static message will be used instead.
Additionally, if the message expression evaluates to a multi-line string,

> the evaluation result will be discarded and the static message will be used if present. Note that static message is validated not to contain multi-line string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the evaluation result will be discarded and the static message will be used if present.
Note that static message is validated against multi-line strings.
```

### Type checking

> When a policy definition is created or updated, the validation process parses the expressions it contains and reports any syntax errors, rejecting the definition if any errors are found. 
> Afterward, the referred variables are checked for type errors, including missing fields and type confusion, against the matched types of `spec.matchConstraints`.
> The result of type checking can be retrieved from `status.typeChecking`. The presence of `status.typeChecking` indicates the completion of type checking, and an empty `status.typeChecking` means that no errors were detected.

Reviewer 2: Better leave an empty line after sub-section line.
Better apply more aggressive line wrappings.

```suggestion

When a policy definition is created or updated, the validation process parses the expressions it contains
and reports any syntax errors, rejecting the definition if any errors are found. 
Afterward, the referred variables are checked for type errors, including missing fields and type confusion,
against the matched types of `spec.matchConstraints`.
The result of type checking can be retrieved from `status.typeChecking`.
The presence of `status.typeChecking` indicates the completion of type checking,
and an empty `status.typeChecking` means that no errors were detected.
```

For example, given the following policy definition:
```yaml
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: "deploy-replica-policy.example.com"
spec:
  matchConstraints:
    resourceRules:
    - apiGroups:   ["apps"]
      apiVersions: ["v1"]
      operations:  ["CREATE", "UPDATE"]
      resources:   ["deployments"]
  validations:
  - expression: "object.replicas > 1" # should be "object.spec.replicas > 1"
    message: "must be replicated"
    reason: Invalid
```

> The status will yield the following information:

Reviewer 2: better leave an empty line before and after code snippet paragraphs, for readability's sake.

```yaml
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: "replica-policy.example.com"
spec:
  matchConstraints:
    resourceRules:
    - apiGroups:   ["apps"]
      apiVersions: ["v1"]
      operations:  ["CREATE", "UPDATE"]
      resources:   ["deployments","replicasets"]
  validations:
  - expression: "object.replicas > 1" # should be "object.spec.replicas > 1"
    message: "must be replicated"
    reason: Invalid
```
will have multiple types and type checking result of each type in the warning message.
```yaml
status:
  typeChecking:
    expressionWarnings:
    - fieldRef: spec.validations[0].expression
      warning: |-
        apps/v1, Kind=Deployment: ERROR: <input>:1:7: undefined field 'replicas'
         | object.replicas > 1
         | ......^
        apps/v1, Kind=ReplicaSet: ERROR: <input>:1:7: undefined field 'replicas'
         | object.replicas > 1
         | ......^
```

Type Checking has the following limitation:

- No wildcard matching. If `spec.matchConstraints.resourceRules` contains `"*"` in any of `apiGroups`, `apiVersions` or `resources`,
  the types that `"*"` matches will not be checked.

> - The number of matched types is limited to 10. This is to prevent a policy that manually specifying too many types

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The number of matched types is limited to 10. This is to prevent a policy that manually specifying too many types.
```
